UNGTEORI TONGDAK
We put our soul into this chicken.
Gosh, thank you.
Seoul is my whole life
and, at night, I feel alive!
I think I’m a night owl.
I tell the chicken "I love you"
before serving it.
I’ve heard that the food
can understand it.
It makes me feel warm inside.
It does?
Yes!
UNGTEORI TONGDAK
Welcome! Grab a seat inside.
Tradition is not buried in time.
It is something that
always moves dynamically.
Seoul is a very complicated
and restless city that never stops
even late at night.
All kinds of things are in motion,
they come together
and develop into something new.
The current trend in Seoul, "Newtro"
is a combination
of the words "New" and "Retro."
The younger generation views this as a way
of rediscovering the values of the past
and reinterpreting them in a modern way.
-Nice work!
Seoul’s nighttime is
when we stop running forward
and focus on finding our identity.
Seoul’s nighttime always excites me!
The night is the time that
gets my heart beating.
Seoul is a dynamic city with
endless buildings
and a huge population
where everything changes rapidly.
Seoul at night is
the best time to truly experience
Seoul’s complex and ever changing trends.
No matter which street you’re on,
late into the night
you can see people chatting,
having a drink,
and finding ways to
express themselves.
Seoul at nighttime,
it’s very diverse.
Seongsu-dong is a
really interesting neighborhood.
Some people call it
the Brooklyn of Seoul.
It has been an industrial area
for a long time.
The factories are still here.
And right next to them
there are these really cool shops,
cafes, restaurants
and pubs.
So, Seongsu-dong is an area where
the old and new coexist,
the perfect place to start
a brewery that makes makgeolli,
a traditional Korean liquor
in a different new style.
Makgeolli is an alcohol made with rice
that’s been produced in Korea
for more than a thousand years.
Throughout the '70s and '80s,
South Korea’s economy developed rapidly.
People became
more interested in new spirits
that came from the West,
like beer and whiskey.
So interest in makgeolli
naturally died out.
But these days, makgeolli
seems to be reaching out to people again.
I think one of the many reasons is that
the number of small breweries,
like ours, is increasing.
You have to wash the rice very well.
Or else the alcohol won’t taste so good.
What was the question again?
My name is Koh Sung-Yong
and I’m the founder of Hangang Brewery.
I think I have
a typical Korean personality.
I’m not talkative,
I’m quiet, and I’m an introvert.
But when it comes to business,
I aim for success.
I always try to come up
with something new.
My first dream was always
to start my own brand.
I was thinking of something Korean.
People thought of makgeolli
as an old man’s drink
or as a cheap drink.
So I thought it would be a good idea
to change those negative perceptions
and that is how we started.
The concept is not to follow
the tradition completely as it was
but to tweak it so that
it works in the modern world.
So while we followed
some of the traditions in making makgeolli
we reinterpreted and modernized it,
so that people now and also
in the future could enjoy it.
We’re a small brewery
that hasn’t been around for long.
But our ultimate goal is to
create a makgeolli that could become
the new standard of all makgeolli.
Tonight, for Naroo Makgeolli’s
tasting session,
we’ve come to one of the hottest
traditional bars, Baekgom Makgeolli.
For traditional drinks,
including makgeolli,
most of the breweries are small.
They don’t have the methods to
self-promote their drinks.
Baekgom Makgeolli is a hub that connects
the breweries across the country
and brings together people
who are interested in traditional liquor.
The drink in the big glass is
the 6 percent Naroo Makgeolli, have a try.
And then there’s the 11.5 percent,
the stronger version.
I think they like this one more.
Seasoned drinkers prefer the stronger one.
I drink a lot of makgeolli with my father.
This is different from
the makgeolli I usually drink,
it's more dense and powerful.
I was planning on just having a sip
but I couldn’t stop myself.
-It’s hard to stop once you've started.
-Yes.
Young people these days are
very interested in tradition
and that’s become a culture of its own.
Being able to be part of that
changing drinking culture,
I feel like we are contributing to Seoul,
the evolving Seoul.
You can't fully enjoy a night out in Seoul
without food or drinks.
Koreans love to eat food with their drinks
and hence the concept of "anju,"
which are the foods
that are consumed with drinks.
Typical examples of anju are chicken feet
and sea snails to go with soju,
pajeon or tofu kimchi
to go with makgeolli,
but probably the most well-known is
chicken with beer.
"Chimaek" is a combination of the words
chicken and maekju, meaning beer.
UNGTEORI TONGDAK
Ungteori Tongdak is a famous restaurant
where people line up late into the night.
-Hello.
-Welcome! Grab a seat inside.
These days, there are
many franchise chicken restaurants
but not many of them maintain
that local chicken restaurant atmosphere.
Here you go.
-Just one?
-One chicken?
Yes, of course.
We started Ungteori Tongdak
around May 1997
and we’ve been
running it for about 24 years
as husband and wife.
Did you put your soul into it, your soul?
Of course, I put in all my soul.
My husband said, "Let’s go with
the name 'Ungteori Tongdak'."
I said, "What! Why 'Absurd Chicken'?"
But I really liked it.
It has a friendly connotation.
Everything is absurd
so it is called "Ungteori."
If there are three of you,
you must order a minimum of
-two alcoholic drinks and one soda.
-Okay.
I feel comfortable with
the late night customers.
Once they come into our restaurant
it’s like they become a family instantly.
The owners here are like…
Well, it’s actually my first time here
but they are so friendly.
Pretty lady, where do you live?
-I knew it.
-Which one is the pretty lady?
I'll do it, ma'am.
-Both!
-Which one is the pretty lady?
-No, she means me.
-Both!
-Uncle is very good looking too.
-Yes, thank you.
Before Ungteori Tongdak,
my husband ran big galbi restaurants,
but they went bankrupt twice.
He’s shy, so he stays in the kitchen.
I put my husband in the back
and I stepped forward.
What would you say our secret is?
Me being the boss?
I became the one in charge.
This is the president
and I’m just a worker.
I just like being with people
and talking with them because
I talk a lot!
-We ordered two--
-Two?
-We ordered two.
-We're getting one more, right?
Once you guys almost finish this one,
the second one will come out.
And because I love talking,
more customers started turning up.
I thought "I have a talent
for running a business."
I grew up in Anseong, in Gyeonggi Province
and 40 years ago,
when I got married, we moved to Seoul.
We had an arranged marriage.
Mom seemed to really like him
as a son-in-law material.
My husband is a hard working man, but…
he’s a bit of a dumbhead.
Dumbhead.
You are.
Try speaking for yourself…
We’re like the two wheels of a bicycle.
Why do you keep on
saying only pretty stuff?
It’s so funny.
But there is no better answer.
We are not the best match.
When I first came to Seoul
I think I felt unsettled.
40 years ago our country
wasn’t that well-off.
Everyone was "ppalli-ppalli"
and acting busy.
Uncles, was that two beers and one cola?
-Yes.
Now, here I am running a chicken shop
and meeting
and talking with lots of people.
This has been my happiness.
Thank you.
The recipe, it took me about 4 years.
The difference between our chicken
and foreign fried chicken
is that we fry in a gamasot,
and the reason we fry twice is to keep
a constant temperature.
It gives a crispier,
cleaner taste to the chicken.
Madam, I heard this is
the best chicken place in Itaewon.
Itaewon is an attractive neighborhood
big on nighttime fun.
There’s always a lot of fun parties.
It’s a global neighborhood.
Itaewon has changed
a lot through the 25 years
I’ve been working here.
ONE DRINK PER PERSON
Running this business
for such a long time,
it feels like Ungteori Tongdak
has become a part of
the history of Seoul and Itaewon.
Young people keep telling me,
"Madam, you should go on a holiday."
And I say to them,
"This is a paradise here,
where shall I go?"
This place keeps me going
so I always try my very best.
You only say pretty words.
It’s the correct answer!
Their music incorporates
what we call "Pansori."
It's this genre
of traditional Korean music
that's a form of storytelling
You turtle bitch!
Although the king is very important
How can you tell a lie?
Didn’t you ever hear the proverb?
In history, the person
Who manipulates is always killed
It’s common to start a band with
the friends around you.
Since many of my friends
were playing traditional music,
Leenalchi was just
naturally the next step.
-Okay! Open up my stomach!
-Open up my stomach!
-There’s nothing but waste
-So open up my stomach
-And that’s all you’ll see
Just one person does it. Not all together.
It was funny yesterday.
They were dancing so hard.
It wasn't a musical experiment.
It was more of
an experiment of possibilities.
Something like a bird sound.
No, no.
No, not like that!
You know, something like "tweet."
When Director Jang Young-gyu
suggested that we should do
some musical experiments
with the Pansori story Sugungga,
I was excited because I thought,
"Wow, I can probably expect something that
I have never seen before."
Seen from above
The ocean surface is waving
No, no.
Let’s just skip that one for now.
-Okay.
-Yes.
Actually we were worried about whether
we would work out as a band
because our group, unlike most bands,
has two bass players, one drummer,
and four vocalists.
Yes. Shall we try doing that lightly
and become stronger in this part?
Of the four vocalists,
Na-rae has the most sensitive side.
I grew up in a very small town
in the countryside.
Even before I could speak, my grandfather
would sit me on his lap and sing me
traditional Korean
traditional songs called Sijo.
-If you want me to say, I will
When I was young, my grandfather
was hospitalized for about
three to four years.
Whenever I sang for him,
it would make him really happy.
When the moon is full, remove the liver
But after he passed away, since then…
I became a little hesitant to
sing in front of a crowd.
That’s how I felt.
The night has become a moment
that makes me reflect upon myself
and allows me to grow.
Tonight, I will be performing in Hongdae.
Hongdae is a really important place
for bands and indie musicians.
It’s like their playground
and it’s a place where people can
experiment safely and grow.
When you come to Gangnam,
you see expensive cars,
tall grey buildings
and people with straight faces
repeating the same routines every day.
But at night, Gangnam is very fancy,
with neon signs and a colorful nightlife.
Everyone in the world knows
"Gangnam Style"
and they have this preconceived
fantasy of the streets.
When I told people that I was going to
open a bar in Gangnam,
they thought it would be really awesome,
really big and gorgeous.
But when I told them
that I was going to open this bar
within a traditional market,
they all said, "You're going to fail."
Although Gangnam is modern,
you can still find pockets of
old Korea even now.
I'll give you some as a sample.
Try eating them like this.
Thank you.
Seoul has many traditional markets,
but Yeongdong Traditional Market
is the only one in Gangnam that maintains
its '70s street market identity.
At its heart is Jangseng Geongangwon,
a cool bar that makes cocktails
with Korean ingredients.
COCKTAILS
When I first visited Yeongdong Market,
it felt like a place
that was lost in time.
Gangnam is the fastest-changing place
of all fast-changing places.
The market is inside
the fastest-changing place,
but it doesn’t change.
I thought maybe I could do something
to help this place
connect with the modern world,
to grease the rusty wheels.
Before I opened Jangseng Geongangwon,
I worked at the Park Hyatt
as head bartender
and then at JW Marriott Hotel
as bar manager.
I was a rising star!
When I participated in global competitions
or travelled around the world,
people always asked me,
"Oh, you’re a bartender?
But how come you don’t make
cocktails from your country’s liquor?"
I was very embarrassed,
but also felt a kind of patriotism.
Welcome.
Take a seat.
Please get their coats for them.
This Hyoje cocktail I’m preparing
expresses the essence of wildflowers.
Wildflower has the ability to heal
the exhausted souls of our modern society.
It’s a traditional liquor base.
We make all of our cocktails
with rare ingredients like
ginseng, doraji, and sesame leaf.
It’s very fresh.
Creamy but fresh.
STICKY RICE DONUTS
HOT FISH CAKES
Good evening, ma'am!
What’s good here lately?
-Red beans.
-Red beans?
I see.
It wasn’t easy to persuade
the vendors at first.
The vendors thought it was
a dodgy bar with an escort service.
Are solid ginseng good ones?
Or are the thick ones…
-Depends on the age.
-The age… so older is better.
Most Koreans are a little shy.
So I took the first step
and they opened up a lot.
What about these red dates, are they good?
Yes, this season's freshest!
-They’re tasty!
-Good, right?
Really tasty.
We became close, like a family.
He has good manners, he’s conscientious
and hard working. Isn’t he?
Thank you!
We make a special "Cocktail of the Month"
with a different vendor monthly.
-Good evening, sir!
-Hey.
Can we get tteokbokki soup?
We don’t need the rice cakes
but mainly soup instead.
We made this using the red pepper sauce
from the tteokbokki shop.
I’ll make one cool
and one warm like a soup,
a slightly flip-style cocktail.
Jangseng Geongangwon is a great example
of how young people in Seoul
are seeking to reinterpret the past
in a playful, modern way.
Young people are on the hunt
for the "newtro" feeling.
As we became famous,
more young people turned up
and the vendors liked that a lot.
They say they feel
as if the street is getting younger.
Hello! I brought you
our collaboration special with tteokbokki.
This whole street is changing,
which is something I always imagined…
but now it’s becoming a reality.
Smile, one, two, three…
We’re coming through!
Pedestrian!
Nice work!
Let’s take a photo.
One, two, three…
Three, four…
Hands on waist, roll your neck.
Two, three, four…
Everyone runs for their own reasons,
but running together creates synergy.
Like the saying states,
"If you go alone, you can go quickly
but if you want to go far
you should go together."
We are coming through. Be careful!
Nice work.
A lot of musicians gather around Hongdae,
and in the time that
I’ve lived here I’ve witnessed
the cycle of them coming and going.
GOPCHANG JEONGOL
Gopchang Jeongol in Hongdae,
it’s been providing a safe haven
for musicians for a long time.
I think Leenalchi’s second ever
performance was held here.
Everyone is looking forward to it today
and feeling a little excited.
-It’s a tight squeeze tonight.
-Oh really?
Our schedule has definitely become
much busier,
and we appear on TV shows
or ads that we never imagined
we would be on
but it’s not like everything stops
when we walk down the street.
So I would say
we are just starting to feel it.
This is the first time in a while
having the audience up close,
so I’m excited to see
how much they’ll enjoy it.
Let me tell you
a little bit about the past.
We came here back when we weren’t famous.
We sang here once but back then,
our outfits didn’t match!
But today we are famous!
We are wearing cool outfits!
We are back in glory!
People tell me,
"Oh my god! This is really fun!"
A tiger is coming down
A beast is coming down through
The deep valley in the forest
Making the high hills shiver
Both ears pricked up
His body is striped
Full of tail
Longer than a grown man’s arm span
When I perform,
I feel what they are thinking,
what kind of energy they are giving me,
and how they are enjoying the performance.
The startled turtle retracts his head
And freezes on the spot
A tiger is coming down
-Encore!
People used to show a resistance
towards Korean traditional music
but the younger generation
is a generation
with no prejudice whatsoever.
It’s difficult to gain much success
as an indie band,
yet they did it,
and it’s especially surprising
because they’re doing something very
Korean, and became a huge sensation.
Does it worry you having
Your gray-haired mother at home?
Does being a loyal courtier
To the king with
Your government post worry you?
Before, as a traditional Pansori singer,
I don’t think I could
fully express myself as Lee Na-rae.
It is only since I joined Leenalchi
that I truly feel
that I was born to sing like this.
I don’t like how he visits
When I’m not around
And now when I perform with them
I feel the joy
that I felt in my childhood,
how it feels to sing because I like it.
Seoul is a place where
different energies circulate
and influence me.
I often think that
if I hadn’t lived in Seoul,
I would have been living a different life.
Because I’ve run Ungteori Tongdak
for a long time in Itaewon,
it feels like we are living with
Seoul’s history.
And I still see new things even now!
Seoul is clearly fast-changing
but something inside…
the core identity of Seoul doesn’t change,
it is well preserved.
That’s what makes the city
more attractive.
-Cheers!